In this lecture, you will start unit testing the
place order method on the
orderBOimpl. Will do it in
two steps, in this lecture we will setup the
expectations stubout the objects and then setup the expectations
that is we will mockout the order DAO
in our test and then we will stubout
all that method calls the
placeOrder is making onto the DAO
which is the create methods. We will
set the expectations of what should happen
when this create method is called on the DAO.
To get started, right click on the
orderBOimpl class
say new junit testcase
If you don't see this option here go to other
and you will find it.
Click on junit testcase
the only thing we have to change here
is this source folder from SRC change it to test
hit finish.
Add the junit4library to your build path, hit ok
there is our test, rename the method
of test to
placeorder_shouldreturn
or shloud
create
an order
using underscores is also a good practice
delete this line the failed line by hitting ctrl D
by pointing your curser to it
very first step is to create a new
orderBO
impl ctrl space the second guy here
class under test
place your curser hit ctrl 1
assign statement to a
new local variable lets call it BO
enter
the next important step is
BO.setDAO this is where our mocking begins
instead of creating a new instance  of DAO
lets declare the DAO order
DAO as a global field
just use the interface no need to use the implementation
DAO
and
mark it with the
@moc annotation from mockito hit ctrl1 import
the moc annotations from
org.mockito package
thats the important step
and for this to work at runtime you have to do
one additional step and will do it in the setup
method so @Before annotation
from the junit API hit ctrl space
import the @Before annotation
public void setup
till here we have to say mockito
annotations ctrl space
annotations
.inintmocs and pass the
this reference so at runtime
we are passing this testcases object
reference to this
moc annotations.inintmocs so that it will scan through
all the objects and any
object that is marked with @moc
will be knocked out, it will create a
proxy moc office order DAO.
Now
we have set that mocked out object
onto the orderBO class now we have to
set the expectations
to do that
expand the imports in here you
already see that we have two imports from mockito lets add another import
import static
org.mockito.mockito
again there is a mockito class
which provides several static methods
can say star because will be using
several static methods from this mockito class
starting with double click maximize it
when , when is a very improtant
which allows us to mockout a
method call, so we want to mockout
on the orderDAO we want to
mockout the create method because that is the method
which is internally called
by the place order method
we want this create method to do what we ask it to do
in here will say DAO.create
new order
will create a new order object
select this new order
assign this to a new local variable by hitting ctrl 1
extract to local variable, lets call it order
import this order by hitting ctrl 1
import
when DAO.createorder two brackets
.then as you can see
the when triggers
the whole process when something happens
or when a method is called then you can use
several methods here
I will explain the other methods later-on for now
all we need is then return
and integer value we can say new
integer
value should be one because
one is successful and zero is failure for us
zero means order was not placed for us
and this guy here throws a
exception for now lets add a throws block
throws a sequel exception
thats it so we have mocked out the DAO
and we have set the
expectations by using the when class when is like a trigger
and we use the then return method again
to return the result which we want
in this case we are returning a result
1 which means success and the BO
should get a
one result back and return a true
we can also test a failured senario
later on by passing in or by returning
back a zero from the mocked out create method.
Will be verifying the results
in the next lecture.